# New
Final Project Design Document, Alex(Chengxi) Peng
Topic: Parent’s Knowledge on Child Developmental Milestones
Problem: Parent’s lack of knowledge on Child’s Developmental Milestones. Parenting practices with an infant and young toddler create the foundation for a child’s development. Among the numerous parenting practices domains, parents’ knowledge of developmental milestones is listed as an essential one. Parental Knowledge on developmental milestones can be understood as parent’s knowledge and familiarity of developmental norms, milestones and the process of child development along with appropriate caregiving skills
Target Audience: All parents who have children range from birth to five years’ old
Users Story 1: Tom is a father and his son is three years old. During the daily play with Jack (his son), he noticed that Jack was constantly avoiding any activities that require his hand. He was concerned and talk to Jack’s preschool teacher. He was advice to check Jack’s development milestones with an online checklist to see there any sign of delay. Tom come to the project website learn more about the sign of a fine motor development delay and realize that Jack might indeed having a temporally delay. He used the website to learn basic activities they can do at home to help Jack improve his fine motor skills.
User Story 2: Sarah is a mother and has a four years old daughter named Rachel. Rachel attend a local private kindergarten and her teacher was noticing that she did not engage with others in the way like her same age peers. Sarah was recommending by Rachel’s teacher to seek diagnosis of Autism. Sarah was not convinced that Rachel has Autism, because based on her own experience with Rachel, she is an active, warm and curious just like her peers. Sarah learn about a website (the final project) that can check the age appropriate development norm of Rachel’s age group. After learning about the signs and characterizes of Autism along with other development potentials, she was thinking that Rachel might be gifted and the screening form available support Sarah’s though. They decide to seek formal evaluation and diagnosis and the result indicated that Sarah is indeed gifted and the lack of engagement during preschool is explained by her boringness with the activities.

Strategy/objective
         The purpose of this website is not only to promote parents’ and teachers’ awareness of proactive assessment early on in a child’s life but also provide them the resources to conduct self-administered assessment along with following-up recommendations for that purpose.
Success Metrics
A formative assessment in the form of an objective questionnaires will be given to the users to examine their own level of learning and experience with the website. All questions will be randomized and fill out by the users on a volunteer basic. Behavior log will also be track during the user using the website to determine the level of engagement of their visit. Another alternative option for evaluation is to conduct a semi construct interview the user to gather his or her subjective points of view about the user experience.
Scope: Functional and Content Specification.
        The first part of the project is to promote awareness will be based on a three steps model. The first two steps are 1) What is a proactive assessment.  And 2) Why do you need a proactive assessment. To demonstrate this, resources/materials will be drawn from validated researches and peer reviewed literature. The third step, 3) How to access proactive assessment. This step serves the purpose to connect clients (parents & educators) with currently available assessment services.
         The second part of the project is to provide clients with resources to conduct self-administered proactive assessments. Clients will be able to learn more specific elements and the administrative procedures in this part of the website. Sample report along with specific recommendations will also be available for parents’ review. Beyond the two core parts of the website to promote and provide proactive assessments, additional information will also be available for client such as the introduction to our core team, contact information.
Structure: Interaction design and information architecture
        Visual demonstration and concise wording for the purpose of easy learnability along flexibility to choose specific elements throughout each page of our website is the essential foundation of our interaction design. Animated action is also available to enrich user experiences when a certain button is pushed. The information architecture is built on a need to know basis. A general understanding & summative characteristics are introduced before specific, and detailed components are revealed to the clients. All information is available for clients, and the purpose of this approach is not only to give new clients the opportunity to learn and adopt how to access information on the website but also give the more experienced users the freedom equally accessible information available.
Skeleton: Interface, navigation, information design
         The interface design is based on the essence of clarity and usability. Regardless of you are a first-time user or an experienced user, the purpose of each interface design is make the serve the purpose of an intuitive action. Such approach will dramatically lower the cognitive load of each clients’ specific action. Navigation bar is also available for clients to easily access all available elements within the web page. Information will primarily be presented in the form of visual based elements such as short videos, animate, and pictures. Wording will be concise and clients centered.
